HybridWebView (.NET 10): initialization customization and platform view access (#3003)
dotnet/docs-maui: docs/user-interface/controls/hybridwebview.md

::: moniker range=">=net-maui-10.0"

## Customize initialization and access platform web views

While <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> doesn’t expose app-facing initializing/initialized events like <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.WebView.Maui.BlazorWebView>, you can still customize the underlying platform web views and run code after they’re ready:

> - Windows (WebView2): the platform view is <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Platform.MauiHybridWebView>, which inherits `WebView2` and adds `RunAfterInitialize(Action)` so you can safely access `CoreWebView2` once it’s ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Windows (WebView2): the platform view is <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>, which inherits `WebView2` and adds `RunAfterInitialize(Action)` so you can safely access `CoreWebView2` once it’s ready.
```

> On iOS/Mac Catalyst, some `WKWebViewConfiguration` options must be set before the view is created. .NET MAUI enables common options by default (inline media playback, autoplay, JavaScript, etc.) so typical scenarios work without extra code. If you need different creation-time options, use the advanced approach below.

### Advanced: provide creation-time configuration with a custom handler

If you need to alter creation-time options (for example, to change `WKWebViewConfiguration` on iOS/Mac Catalyst), register a custom handler and override `CreatePlatformView`:

```csharp
// In MauiProgram.cs
builder.ConfigureMauiHandlers(handlers =>
{
    handlers.AddHandler<HybridWebView, MyHybridWebViewHandler>();
});

// Custom handler (iOS/Mac Catalyst shown; similar ideas apply for other platforms)
public class MyHybridWebViewHandler : HybridWebViewHandler
{
#if IOS || MACCATALYST
    protected override WebKit.WKWebView CreatePlatformView()
    {
        var config = new WebKit.WKWebViewConfiguration
        {
            // Example: change defaults established by MAUI
            AllowsInlineMediaPlayback = false,
        };

        // Recreate the platform view with your configuration

>         var webview = new MauiHybridWebView(this, CoreGraphics.CGRect.Empty, config);

Reviewer: This block is only shown for the .NET 10 moniker so assumption is that only people using .NET 10 will see this
